So in the last lecture we've added our CSS styles.
Let's now use these styles actually to make this look a bit better.
So we need to use our CSS grid now. So let's go to index.php.
And I'm gonna add our container class, so "<div class=" with a class of
"o-container" and remember "o" stands for object and then "u-margin-bottom-
40" and this is a utility class.
And let's close it.
And then I'm gonna add a row.
And my class is called
"o-row".
And then a column.
So it's "o-row__column". And that's following the BEM convention.
And then I'm gonna copy that to save time and then paste it and then "--span-12".
So this will span the entire row. And then for medium screens we need it to span just 8. So "8
@medium".
And that's also a convention I'm using. The "@" and then the screen size for media queries.
So this will span 8 for medium screens and 12
otherwise. I'm gonna also add a HTML5 MAIN tag here.
And you should use these tags whenever you can. So "main" means that this is the main content of the page
because we will have a sidebar in a moment. So the sidebar will have a different tag also which would signify
that. This is not the main content it's just the side content.
So let's now close our tags.
We have the "/main".
And two "/div".
Great. So inside the row we'll have another column for the sidebar.
So I'm gonna just copy this to save time and close it. And just instead of "8", it will be "4". And inside
of here we will fetch the sidebar and to do that we will use get_sidebar().
So get_sidebar() will get a file in your theme called sidebar.php. So let's create an empty file now.
And in the next lecture we will see how to fill our sidebar. So sidebar.php. And let's type some text.
And I think that will should do it.
So let's see our browser now.
And it's looking much better now and we have a sidebar
and our main content. Let's now add some style to the posts.
So at the start of the posts I'm gonna wrap it in an ARTICLE tag and this is a good HTML5 tag to use
for a blog post.
So "article" and then close it.
Let's just add some space here.
So the class name I gave for a blog post is "c" because it's a component and "-post". However only give
a class name to a post you should use the PHP function, WordPress function actually which is called "post_class()". And
post_class() will generate some classes for each post.
And this could be very useful in styling, you know, special type of posts like sticky post. WordPress will automatically
give it a sticky class.
And all sort of stuff we'll see that in a moment. And it takes as an argument extra classes that we want
to give so "c-post".
And let's also give it a margin "u-margin-bottom
-20". So let's save and see how it looks like.
So here, we have some improvements here.
So let's inspect and as you can see, we have some classes here that WordPress generated aside from our classes. So we've the "post"
and "-" the post id and than "post type-post".
So we'll have all sorts of information about the post in the class so that you can target specific posts.
So we have the post formats, the category, and the tags.
So as you can see, I styled the sticky post, you know, with a border here.
So this will be very useful.
It's actually mandatory to add this post_class() function.
You should add it.
It's not optional.
So let's carry on here.
I have my class name for the title which is "c-post__title".
I also have a class for the meta information
which is "c-posts__meta". Also
same thing for the excerpt.
And finally the "readmore_link".
Let's go to the helpers functions in the lib folder.
And we already added the "screen-reader" class here. We just need to add another class for the link itself. So "c-post
__readmore".
So I think that's it. Let's see how it looks like now.
And yes, it looks a lot better.
And as you can see now the read more screen reader text has disappeared because we have loaded our classes. So this can be much
better now.
One last thing we should add like the post_class() function that we added for the post.
There is a similar class that we should add for the BODY.
So let's open PHP and it's called body_class(). And you can add more classes but we don't need to do
that in our case.
So let's see what this did.
And let's refresh and
inspect.
And as you can see it adds some classes here. So "blog logged-in admin-bar" and this will change whenever you.
Let's visit a single post.
And now we have different classes "single", "postid" and stuff like that.
So this also could be useful for you and it's also mandatory to add.
So even if you are not gonna use it add it to avoid theme rejections and stuff like that.
So I think that's it for this lecture.
Let's see how to create sidebars and widgets in the next lecture.